>> Welcome to Creating I/O Kit Drivers for
Multiple Architectures and OS Versions.
My name is Ethan Bold, I'm an engineer on the I/O
Kit team, and my co-worker Jay Towslee is going
to come up on stage in a little bit and join me.
So today we're here to talk about some things you need to
know, and some tools that you need to build your drivers
to run on as many versions and
architectures of OS X as you need to.
For example, you might be releasing a driver that you want
to support as far back as OS X 10.4 for 32-bit PowerPC
and 32-bit Intel architectures;
but that you also need to support
on 10.6 Snow Leopard for your 64-bit Intel arcdhitecture.
So one of the things that you would
do to do that, would be to...
to go into X code and define a, let's see, for your
32-bit PowerPC architecture you would target the 10.4 SDK
for your Intel 32-bit architec2ture.
You target the 10.4u SDK and for your 64-bit
Intel architecture you target the 10.6 SDK.
Now an SDK is a software development kit, and
basically that's a snapshot of all the API's
that we publish with a given major release of OS X.
We release a new SDK with every release of OS X,
every major release, and each new SDK is likely
to contain deprecated API's, are likely
to replace API's, and to add new API's.
And since you'll be developing
drivers against different SDK's,
you need to know some of the big differences
in those SDK's and how to handle them.
So let's get started.
First off this is not an introduction to I/O Kit.
I'd recommend you check out the I/O
Kit fundamentals talk from WWDC 2008.
I think that's available for download on-line.
It's a good intro level talk.
Also this is not an iPhone talk.
We're talking about kernel extensions, and kernel
extensions are not supported in the iPhone SDK.
So we are talking about kernel
architectures, different architectures
of user processes, and K64 and 64-bit address dspaces.
So by kernel architectures I mean 32-bit
PowerPC, 32-bit Intel, and 64-bit Intel.
User process possible architectures include 32-bit
PowerPC, 64-bit PowerPC, 32-bit Intel, and 64-bit Intel.d
And we're gonna talk about K64, we're gonna talk about
some of the differences between K32 and 10.5 and earlier,
and K64 in Snow Leopard, and then Jay's
going to come up on stage and give a demo
of how to implement some of this in Xcode.
So let's talk about building drivers for multiple kernel
architectures, and let's start with a little history lesson.
In the beginning from 10.0 to 10.4, PowerPC was the only...
32-bit PowerPC was the only supported kernel architecture.
So for you as a developer, things were a little easier
because you only had one architecture to develop for.
And then in 10.4, 10.4.4, and 10.4.7 we introduced some
new Intel hardware with a 32-bit Intel kernel architecture.
Starting from that point, if you wanted to release
drivers that targeted both kernel architectures,
you needed to release a FAT driver with
binaries for both PowerPC and i386.
So coming in in Snow Leopard, we
have new 64-bit kernel support
and we have dropped 32-bit PowerPC
support in the Snow Leopard kernel.
So with each of these new architectures came changes
that we had to make and accommodate in the API.
So we're going to talk about some of the API
changes that accompanied these architecture changes.
And first we're going to talk about...
before we get into the actual changes between OS X SDK's,
we're going to talk about tools you can use to write code
against multiple SDK's and a single source space.
So first off we're going to talk about AvailabilityMacros.h.
This is a header file, you can include.
It's defined in 10.5 and 10.6 and it defines a few
constants - two important ones that we're going to talk
about today are MAC_OS_X_VERSION_MIN_REQUIRED,
and MAC_OS_X_VERSION_MAX_ALLOWED.
These are pre-processor constants you can
use to conditionally compile your code.
MIN_REQUIRED let's you say, run this code against...
when we're building against 10.4 SDK's and higher.
Like I said, this is only available in 10.5 and 10.6.
We do have an alternative that you can include, I'm
sorry, we have a header in our AppleSamplePCI project.
It's a project associated with this session, and
you can copy it and include it into your target
to provide similar constants when
you're building against a 10.4 SDK.
And the one thing I haven't mentioned is
that MAC_OS_X VERSION_MIN_REQUIRED is
specified by your Mac OS X deployment target.
That's a setting that Jay's gonna talk
about in your Xcode build settings.
So here's an example of how you might
use MAC_OS_X VERSION_MIN_REQUIRED
to conditionally compile some code
against 10.4 and against later OS's.
So in this top block of code...
First I should say that this code implements
a virtual method from the I/OUserClientClass.
So if you're implementing an IOUserClientClass, prior to...
let's see, in 10.4 and earlier you would have implemented
the method IOUserClient get target and method for index,
to provide user client access to
processes attaching to your driver.
And from...
that API was deprecated and replaced in 10.5 and
later by the method IOUserClient external method.
So this code at compile time says if we're
building for an SDK that's 10.4 or earlier,
we're going to use the old deprecated
get target method for index.
Otherwise for building against a 10.5 or 10.6 or later,
we're going to implement IOUserClient
external method instead.
So like I said, MAC_OS_X VERSION_MIN_REQUIRED is
one of the big tools we can use to deal with SDK
and OS version differences, so let's move
on and look at a few actual differences.
First up...
when we added i386 support in 10.4.7 we also added Rosetta.
Rosetta lets you run PowerPC, 32-bit
PowerPC b2ased applications in user space
over your driver sitting at 32-bit Intel kernel.
The big consequence of this is that if you communicate
and share data between your driver and the kernel,
and this PowerPC process and user space, is that
PowerPC and Intel have different bit orders.
They represent bytes differently internally, and
this is something that you need to be aware of,
and we're going to later on talk about
some ways that you might cope with that.
Next
... in the 10.4u SDK for the Intel architecture,
we introduced a class called IODMACommand.
This replaced IOMemoryCursor for any DMA
that you might be doing in your text, and...
yeah, just need to know about it if you're
working with any pre 10.4 code that does DMA.
Let's see, so moving on to the 10.5 SDK, one of
the big pushes in the 10.5 SDK was to add support
for 64-bit addressing within the kernel, which
will help your driver when you adopt these API's -
will help your driver communicate
with 64-bit processes in user space.
But to be clear, this was not K64 yet.
K64 arrived in 10.6.
This changes the support 64-bit addressing, so
the two big API changes that we're going to look
at now are IOUserClient, and IOMemoryDescriptor.
IOUserClient is a class that you can implement
to share data between your driver and user space.
And we replaced the, we deprecated the
method "getTarget" and method for index
because it did not support 64-bit data types,
and replaced it with the method "externalMethod".
And with IOMemoryDescriptor we deprecated several
API's for similar reasons, and replaced them.
Let's look at examples of each of those.
So this is the same code sample that we just discussed.
On the top we're running, on the top we're
building against an SDK 10.4 or earlier.
And on the bottom we're building
against an SDK for 10.5 or later.
So it's as simple as that.
We've got an API that we know isn't supported after
10.4, and we're easily able to split it up like this
such that we can build against a 10.4 SDK to the
architectures that we want to support our driver on,
which would be 32-bit PowerPC 2and 32-bit
Intel, and the example I gave earlier.
And we can support K64 in 10.6 as well.
So we have for IOMemoryDescriptor,
we have this enormous chart
which we usually do a quiz on after
the talk - so pay attention.
And again these are just changes we made in the
10.4 SDK and earlier, versus the 10.5 SDK and later.
And here's another little code snippet showing
how we use Mac OS X version min required
to conditionally compile for the
10.4 SDK versus the 10.5 SDK.
There's one other interesting little tidbit I have to point
out about this code, which is that we're not only checking
if MAC_OS_X VERSION_MIN_REQUIRED is less than or equal
to Mac OS X version 10.4, but we are also checking
if we are building for a 32-bit PowerPC
architecture; and that's because...
in the 10.4 build frame, in 10.4 when we released
Intel, we maintained two different SDK's.
So while we only released one SDK for 10.6 and one
SDK for 10.5 there are two SDK's out there for 10.4.
PowerPC builds against the 10.4 SDK, and Intel,
32-bit Intel, builds against the 10.4u SDK.
So this code is using a method that's defined in the 10.4u
SDK on the ?Elxsi interview statement, that's Intel code.
And on the top that is using the
previous method to implement that.
OK, so we just talked about some kernel architectures in
OS X, and some of the changes that you need to be aware of,
and SDK changes that you need to be aware of in your drivers
to build against multiple architectures and OS versions.
So let's jump ahead and look at user process architectures.
And really we're talking about how your
driver communicates with user processes.
So your drivers in the kernel, executing
in the architecture of the hardware,
or executing in the kernel's architecture...
processes are in their own address spaces, and executing
in their own architectures, and sometimes you need to talk.
So that problem arises when...
like I mentioned before, when you are a 32-bit Intel
or a 64-bit Intel process running in the kernel,
and you need to communicate with a
32-bit PowerPC process in user space.
We're going to talk about that in just a second.
First let's run through the history
of user space architectures on OS X.
First everything was PowerPC, it was 32-bit PowerPC.
In 10.4 we introduced 64-bit PowerPC user process
architectures, but we're not going to talk about that a lot
for two reasons: one it was never
very widely supported by OS X, and 2 -
Rosetta does not support 64-bit PowerPC processes.
So from now on when I talk about
PowerPC user space processes,
I'm generally talking about 32-bit
user space PowerPC processes.
So with our adoption of Intel we got 32-bit
Intel processes and 64-bit Intel pdrocesses.
That's where we are today.
So... let's first talk about whether you need to do
any work to make sure that the data you are sharing
between your driver and user space is correct.
If you don't communicate any data with
user space at all, then you're fine.
There's nothing for you to do.
But don't leave yet because we're still
going to talk about K64 in a little bit.
If your device communicates with user space through an I/O
Kit family, then there is probably nothing special for you
to do in your driver, because the
family will take care of byte swapping.
Otherwise...
otherwise you may have to worry about byte
swapping and making sure your data is accessible
to user processes that you're talking to.
So the two easiest, most common bridges to share
data between user space and the I/O Kit kernel
in your driver are the I/O Registry, and the IOUserClient.
The IORegistry is...
it's pretty lightweight and it's very easy to use.
It's just a few lines of coding user space, and just a few
lines of code in your driver to share data back and forth.
The up side is that you get free byte ordering,
byte ordering switching if you would need
to switch byte ordering for your user process.
The downside is that it's not suitable
for large quantities of data.
If you have lots of data to share between
user space and kernel space in your driver,
you should look into using an IOUserClient instead.
It provides much more flexibility and control, and it
let's you define arbitrary entry points from user space
into the kernel so that you can define calls, and your
user process can pass arbitrary chunks of data to you
from user space, and get arbitrary chunks of data back.
Unlike IORegistry, you do need to be aware of the
endianness of the process that you're talking to.
And in just a second we're going
to talk about how you can do that.
So let's start with a code snippet of some IORegistry code.
Like I said, it's fairly simple to share data
between a user space process and your I/O Kit driver.
This sample on top shows this single line of code from
user land that passes a dictionary of key value pairs
into your driver, and as long as your driver implements
the IORegistry method, IORegistryEntryMethodSetProperties,
your driver can then get that dictionary and investigate all
of the strings and numbers and arrays that it might contain.
So next up is a considerably scarier
example of using the IORegistry.
So you don't need to read this code
very closely, this is mostly up here...
to provide an example of the fact that it is
unsafe to modify a collection in the IORegistry.
If you have code in your driver that does a "get" on a
property, and the IORegistry gets a dictionary or an array,
and then modifies that dictionary or an array that
is unsafe code which could lead to a kernel panic,
due to the fact that those collection modifications are
not atomic and if another thread should come along and try
and read that property, either in user space or
kernel space, you are at risk for a kernel panic.
So that's just something to be aware of.
We also have some boot-r's that you can set
via NVRAM that will kernel panic the second
that you actually modify a collection, and
that's great for tracking down this kind of bugs.
If you're ever tracking down a very sporadic crash in
your driver, I'd recommend you dig up that boot-r again,
make sure you're not modifying any collections live.
So that was a brief look at the IORegistry.
Here is the code that you would use in a user space process
to share data with your driver through an IOUserClient.
Now if you'll recall, a couple of times
we've looked at a slide with example code,
showing how you would conditionally compile your
IOUserClient implementation for 10.4 versus 10.5 or 10.6.
And just like IOUserClient changed between 10.4 and 10.5,
the UserClient methods to send data
to an IOUserClient also changed.
So this just demonstrates the same
idea that we looked at in the kernel
of conditionally compiling your code for a 10.4 SDK...
when necessary, or a 10.5 or 10.6 SDK otherwise.
So here's the slide I've been alluding to.
This is where we actually can check in our IOUserClient
code whether the user process that we're communicating
with is the same endianness of us, and if not make sure that
we byte swap any data that we share with that user process.
So... so this top block of code, this first block
of code is run in the AppleSamplePCI User Client.
Again, this code is all from the AppleSamplePCI
project, sample code you can download.
This is from the init routine.
So if you're not familiar with an
IOUserClient, each IOUserClient attached
to your driver is attached to exactly
one process in user space.
If you had five or six or a dozen user
processes, user process clients of your driver,
each one of them would have its own I/O User Client
in the kernel; its own instantiation of this class.
So this is in the init routine of
AppleSamplePCI's IOUserClient implementation.
The first thing it does is it checks for
the property User Client CrossEndian key.
If CrossEndian key exists, that means that
the client is of an opposite endianness,
and we've have to swap data before
sharing data with that client.
So what we do is we set a CrossEndian compatible key to
true, and we remember that this is a CrossEndian client
by setting a local member variable, fCrossEndian to true.
And then later on, this is a snippet from when
we're publishing data up to our user space client,
how we just check that local member variable, and it's set.
Then we're going to run OSSwapInt64 on this 64-bit
data type, to individually swap the bytes to make it
so that this data is readable by
the process that we're targeting.
So I also want to point out that this code detects
that it is attached to a CrossEndian client
and it says OK that's great, I'm compatible.
But you don't have to do that.
You can, like this code could have
just as well de-allocated all of its,
all the resources that it had previously
allocated, and returned null...
and that user process simply wouldn't
get a user client into your driver.
So you don't have to support CrossEndian clients.
Alright, that's everything I have for
managing different user space architectures.
We're talk for just a little bit about K64.
K64 is the new 64-bit Intel kedrnel in Snow Leopard, and
we're going to talk about some of the big differences
between K64 and K32, which was the 32-bit kernel
- kernel architecture in 10.5 and earlier.
So the first thing to know about K64 is that
pointers are twice as wide as they used to be.
K64 has a 64-bit address space, so to represent that we have
to use 8 bytes to represent a pointer instead of as in K32
when we only needed 4 bytes to represent that pointer.
One consequence of that is that if you have any code that
assumes, like on our prior 32-bit kernels, that integers
and pointers were the same size because they used to be.
Integers used to be 4 bytes, integers
were 4 bytes and pointers were 4 bytes.
However in Snow Leopard, integers are
still 4 bytes but pointers are 8 bytes.
So one consequence of that might be that you have code
that stores a pointer into an integer data type, which...
which probably would have worked just fine in a 32-bit
kernel,2 but in a 64-bit kernel that 8 byte pointer stored
into a 4 byte integer would truncate the top 4 bytes of
that, and you would be left with a meaningless pointer.
So if you're ever debugging an issue like this in GDB,
one thing you can look for is that in Snow Leopard,
in 10.6, the top few bytes of each address...
of every pointer you have, should begin with 0x7ffff...
and maybe a few more f's.
So that's a good safety check if you're ever
investigating a pointer, or looking at a pointer
and it doesn't look like that, it's wrong.
Another thing to be aware of in K64 is structure alignment.
Since longs and pointers have doubled
in size from 4 bytes to 8 bytes...
if you're passing any structures of integers and longs
and pointers from a 64-bit process, or a 64-bit driver,d
to a 32-bit process, then you need to just be aware
that the compiler may very well have
laid out that structure differently.
And I should also point out that if you're
interested in learning more about K64,
there's a couple of really good references that are
much more detailed than what I'm talking about today.
The first is the K64 talk at WWDC in 2008.
It's a really, really information-packed talk.
The second is there is a document published by Developer
Relations called the, I think it's the K64 Transition Guide.
And we have a link to that at the end of this talk.
So I'm sorry, I was talking about structure alignment.
The compiler, usually the compiler likes to align
data types along boundaries equal to their size.
So... so an 8 byte pointer is likely to be
aligned at a multiple of 8 bytes in the structure.
So because of that, the compiler's
likely to insert a lot of empty space.
If your structures aren't optimally arranged, if
it needs to put a 4 byte next to a 4 byte pointer,
it could very likely just drop 4
bytes of empty space in between.
So not only is that a waste of space, but
it might not be the same struct format
that maybe your file formats were
expecting, or other clients were expecting.
We should also mention that...
that with 64-bit addressing and K64, we started
paying a lot more attention to address data types.
A lot of the data types we were using in the kernel and in
user space were really only suitable for 32-bit addresses,
so you'll see a lot of change, a lot of code
moving to use these new bigger data types
that store 64-bit addresses like mach_vm_address_t.
And of course we already talked about some of the API
changes in the 10.5 SDK that you need to pay attention to,
as you're moving on to 10.6 and to support K64.
So... I've got a quick code snippet to show some of the
different addressing data types that I just talked about.
Up top this is some kernel code that used
to use the data type IOVirtualAddress.
It still does, when building against the SDK for
10.4 and earlier, and that is replaced by the...
the more 64-bit friendly address
data type mach_vm_address_t.
And here in user land, we have a similar sort of thing.
This is a user space process and it's checking the seed...
to find constant LP64, if it's building against a...
a 64-bit architecture, in this struct, the
middle of the struct that it's defining
that will use the 64-bit address
data type mach_vm_address_t.
Otherwise it will use the 32-bit
address data type vm_address_t.
And that's my very, very quick summary of K64.
I'm really not doing it justice, so I recommend
you check out that K64 talk from WWDC 2008.
And with that I'm going to hand things over to Jay Tasley.
Jay is going to walk through some Xcode settings.
>> Okay before we get started, quick sort of summary of the
K64 development tools that you're going to need to look for.
In the move to Snow Leopard we've changed
GCC to 4.2 as the system compiler.
There's a lot of calls that might have been
deprecated in K32, or the PowerPC kernel.
Not only are they deprecated, they're not there in K64.
So deprecation is for real.
So we cleaned up a bunch of things, and
you're going to need to watch for that.
In terms of moving your KEXT over, the simplest
piece of advice I can give you is enable...
let the compiler do a lot of work for you.
Enable all the warnings, ironically Wall
doesn't actually enable all the warnings,
so you might also want to enable Wshorten-64-to-32, which
is the one that will probably cause you the most trouble;
particularly if you're dealing with an old code base.
And finally, and Ethan's been alluding
to it, architecture specific SDK's
and OS version specific SDK's are something I'm going to
show you how to use to target in your code the changes.
And finally, if you're doing new development, all
KEXTs are both 32 and 64 bit what we call universal.
Three-way FAT if you're going to support back to
PowerPC code on even as early as 10.3.9, 10.4.
And certainly two-way FAT if you're
going forward from 10.6 on.
So with that, I'm going to switch over to the demos.
Do I need to...
I switched my selector up here and I'm not getting video.
Sorry.
[ Silence ]
What did I do wrong?
This one...
[ Silence ]
Victim of my own success.
Okay, this is the general settings for
the project, the AppleSamplePCI project,
and you're looking at setting a base SDK of
10.6 and this is pretty much the normal deal.
Here also setting overall the gcc warning
flags, those flags that I mentioned earlier.
It's also important to note that
this is probably the kind of place
where you're gonna see some architecture specific settings.
For those of you that haven't played in Xcode in here in a
while, remember that that's down in the little gear setting
where I can add basically any new setting I want;
specifically if I'm going to add to an SDK, I can do this...
oops, sorry.
And basically choose, based on the architecture
type, which SDK I might want to use.
And theoretically you could take this
example all the way back to 10.3.9.
The reality is there is one piece of code that is
not in the 10.3.9 SDK, which is a collections piece,
which deals with that live registry piece
that Ethan was talking about earlier.
But it certainly compiles and runs 10.4, 10.5, and 10.6.
So looking at the settings for an actual
KEXT itself, this is the setting for the KEXT
that we're going to run on all 10.5 and all 10.6 systems.
So we talked earlier about shedding both the
SDK, so specifically we're setting the SDK's
for 10.5 for Intel 32-bit and PowerPC 32-bit.
We're also setting the compiler versions appropriately, and
we're also setting the deployment targets appropriately.
So you need to get all three of those in alignment to
make the availability macros do what you want them to do.
Get that wrong, and it's a world of hurt to
figure out which one you didn't do correctly,
because numbers will not make sense -
not that I've ever done that or anything.
Anyway here's also where you're going to choose, if you're
doing that new development this buys you a lot of things,
just to say standard 32-bit, 64-bit
Intel or 32-bit, 64-bit Universal.
Now if we look at the specific sub-KEXT that we'll
talk about in a couple of minutes in this project,
this is a KEXT that is built primarily to support 10.4.
This is directly targeted with the base SDK, and
you notice I've got the PowerPC SDK specified here,
that's actually not necessary - you could take
that out because it'll just pick up the 10.4 basic.
And you'll also notice that we changed the compiler version.
So that is going to, when I build this, the
flags that are set by this SDK are what's going
to conditionally compile base in the availability macros.
Anyway... so let's zoom back out so we can
see a little bit more of what we're doing.
The KEXT itself...
[ Silence ]
... loads and it should be pointed
out that this is a K64 system.
And Ethan talked earlier about the addresses
and the types of addressing you're going to see,
and it looks like we got it a little bit backwards.
So ignore that 7, it should actually be all f's and an 8.
Sorry about that.
That says we didn't edit well enough, apologize.
Anyhow, this is the magic number that you're going to see.
If you're not seeing in your debugging on a K64
system, if you're not seeing this in your pointers,
you've probably got a truncation issue and that's
the time to go back, if you haven't already,
and enable that shorten 64 to 32 and
look for 2where that's biting you.
So now that the KEXT is loaded, let's try
a couple of sample clients against it.
So we'll start with PowerPC.
PowerPC support, or Rosetta support, in the developer seed
is enabled as an option so if you try this when you get home
and it doesn't, or if you've tried it here at
the show, it's because you'll need to reinstall
or go into the installer and specify
the option Rosetta setting.
But you'll see that Rosetta has loaded, and you can
tell that Rosetta is loaded if we look over here,
we can see that we have the CrossEndian flag
set - this is my kernel log by the way -
and you can also see where I've actually been able to
use that set properties piece that Ethan was talking
about earlier, and I've set a value
in the registry here of 24.
For those of you that were paying attention to the
source code sample Ethan showed a little earlier,
remember that we had 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
You'll notice that in this PowerPC version, we've swapped
those bytes because this would not be 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2,
1 if we hadn't handled that using the Rosetta support.
So just to prove that we have everything
working, let's quickly go through and check 386.
You'll notice that you have slightly different
buffers, and that's because as Ethan alluded to,
every user client gets its own
instantiation of the different user methods,
and the buffers are allocated local to the process.
You'll notice that we're still getting our
correct answer here, and you'll notice over here
that we no longer see the CrossEndian flag, but we
do still see that our set properties got the 24.
And finally...
well almost finally.
You'll notice we get a much larger buffer address,
which makes sense because this is now a 64-bit process.
And again, the same things.
It's not CrossEndian, and the 24 gets set.$
So everything's working as we expect, again the 8,
7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 is coming through as we expect.
And just to prove that...
Rosetta is not 64-bit
[ Silence ]
... that's what you're going to get.
So that's kind of the way it works.
So what's important also is that we, you had to know
how the magic works that I can run two different KEXTs
and sub-KEXT types to get all this to work.
So I'm going to switch back to the project itself...
and talk about a couple of things.
Here are two targets.
The source code files for the 2 targets, for
AppleSamplePCI and AppleSamplePCI 10.4, are identical.
They're ifdef like we talked about earlier, but this actual
source code that is compiled is the same source code.
We're just targeting with the SDK
selection, and the deployment targets
to get the proper conditional compilation.
What we do to make all of this work so that the right
KEXT tries to load on the right system, is two things: 1 -
we copy the sample PCI 10.4 KEXT into the plug in directory
of the one that we would normally load on 10.5 and 10.6.
And so the kernel only grabs that at boot time.
You can't play with this by doing KEXT load,
that doesn't work because it doesn't search
into the actual plug in directory with KEXT load.
So you'll have to actually install it in the
system library extensions to test this function.
Having said that, what we do do
is the individual KEXT plist...
will use the bundle library property to
load the right thing on the right system.
So for those of you that are familiar with
all these numbers, you know that if it's 8.0
that means it is going to be a Tiger system.
And so this is only going to try to
load on a Tiger system, or later.
However, you'll note that on the one that we've got built
for 10.5 and 10.6 support, that has for all architectures,
it's going to try and load on a 10.5 system - that's the
9.0 kernel - and this is the first example you may have seen
of using the bundle library specific,
architecture specific flags
which the talk earlier today about
KEXT management, was using.
And this is where, if it's a 64-bit kernel, we're going to
then only load it if it's 64-bit and Snow Leopard or later.
That's how all that works.
And just so you don't think we're yanking your
chain, I'm switching over to a x86 32-bit system.
So this is a normal 10.5, 10.6 system.
In this particular case it happens to be Snow Leopard.
We're loading that same kernel, or that same KEXT, and...
[ Silence ]
... see that we get the same results.
So the same code, conditionally
compiled, loaded onto 2 different systems.
If I had a 10.4 system, I'd be able to show that too.
Anyway, back to our slides.
Summary - what is it we'd like you to take home?
Well there's new API's and in particular if you're going to
support 64-bit, which by the way you have to support even
if you don't have user land interaction, if you expect
your device or service or "fill in the blank" to function
in a K64 world, you at least need to recompile,
resolve the warnings, resolve any deprecated API's.
You need to have a 64-bit and a
32-bit Intel KEXT, or slices,
in your blob for it to load and work on a K64 system.
You're going to target appropriate SDK's in your code
in order to conditionally compile in the right stuff,
and availability macros is your friend here.
You want to match the SDK and deployment targets.
You need to do both things, otherwise it won't
work correctly and it's not a lot of fun.
It's kind of embarrassing to actually be caught
out doing that, again not from personal experience.
And finally you're going to need to test and ship,
which we all know is on the list of things to do.
So with that, a couple of more pieces of information,
Craig Keithley is your evangelist, contact.
Documentation - we've talked about today.
The AppleSamplePCI, which is available
today on the developer website.
The SimpleUserClient, which has a lot more
detail about IOUserClient information.
The 64-bit Transition Guide and Universal Binary
Programming Guidelines, those are all important.